

# Chapter 4

This chapter concerns co-designs, categories where we think of objects as having inputs and outputs

A feasibility relation for a preorder given another preorder is a monotone map from them to a bool, such that the preorder operations matter.
A profunctor is a relation between two V-categories: it is a function from an element in each category to V.
Profunctors are like "bridges" and they connect categories together
A feasibility relation is a Bool profunctor by definition.
Feasibility relations kind of look like monotone maps because they preserve structure

There exists a category $Feas$ where the objects are preorders and the morphisms are feasibility relations.
Composing two feasibility relations is pretty easy to visualize so I won't discuss here
Recall that skeletal preorders are preorders such that if x <= y and y <= x, x = y. Quantiles based on skeletal preorders are skeletal quantiles.
For any skeletal quantile, there is a category $Prof_V$ where the objects are categories enriched in the quantile and the morphisms are profunctors enriched in the quantile.
We can define $Feas$ as $Prof_Bool$.
We can think of an identity profunctor as a profunctor between isomorphic categories. In other words, the hom-object is the same as the profunctor result.

Profunctor composition is associative.
Profunctors have an associated "companion" and "conjoint", defined as Companion: F(p, q) = Q(F(p), q) and Conjoint: F(q, p) = Q(q, F(p)). Companions can be thought of as bridges in the direction of the profunctor, and conjoint can be thought of as a bridge in the opposite direction.

Profunctors can kind of be thought of as creating a new V-category. This is called the "collage".
The collage is defined as a V-category such that the objects are the union of the objects of the source and dest categories, and the hom-object as being either the hom-object of the original category or the value of the profunctor depending on what elements are being compared.
There exist functors that send each object to itself and each morphism to itself. These are called "collage inclusions."

We can add complexity to feasibility diagrams by creating something called a "monoidal category": a categorified monoid.
The process of categorification is converting properties of something to structures.
Example with natural numbers:
* We can categorize addition of natural numbers by converting each number first into a set with that many elements.
* The addition operation becomes the disjoint union and equality becomes isomorphic.
* Then, for any two sets, the disjoint union of them creates an isomorphism with the sum.
Usually, it is pretty good to categorize preorders as categories, with hom-sets instead of hom-objects. Categories are just $Set$-categories!
Note that categorizing things might remove some brutish things but it will add more complex brutish things.

Symmetric monoidal categories are like the category version of monoidal preorders. From the perspective of wiring diagrams, it's like a box with multiple inputs and outputs.
A "symmetric monoidal structure" on a category is defined as an object in the category that acts as the monoidal unit and a monoidal product functor that is subject to associativity and reflexivity (defined as isomorphisms).
* If the isomorphisms for identity and associativity are replaced with equality, it is "strict".
Monoidal preorders are just symmetric monoidal categories where the hom-set has at most 1 element.

Recall how V-categories can be thought of as a type of category, where V is a SMP.
A V-category where V is an SMP is a normal V-category, except that:
* for every object, there is an "identity element" specified, which is a morphism from the identity object to the self-hom-object
* A composition morphism is defined from any three objects' resulting hom-objects
I literally only somewhat understand this

Compact closed categories are monoidal diagrams that loop back.
A "dual" for an object in an SMC consists of:
* Another object in SMC, called the "dual" of the object;
* A morphism from the identity to the product of the dual and the object, called the "unit" of the object;
* A morphism from the product of the object and the dual to the identity, called the "counit" of the object.
If for every object in an SMC has a duel, then the SMC is "compact closed".
We can visualize the unit and counit as "cups" in a wiring diagram.
Compact closed categories are a special type of monoidal category.

The profunctor cateogry of any skeletal quantile is compact closed
The product of profunctors is "distributive" (not really but you get the idea) (f*g ((x1, y1), (x2, y2)) := f(x1, y1) * g(x2, y2)). The monoidal unit is $1$.
Duals in $Prof_V$ are just opposite categories. 
